We should follow the example of a police officer named Brian Murphy .
In fact , working folks should n't have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go up while CEO pay has never been higher .
And all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in dangerous places at great personal risk -- - our diplomats , our intelligence officers , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- supporting our military families ; .
It is our generation 's task , then , to reignite the true engine of America 's economic growth -- a rising , thriving middle class .
There are things we can do , right now , to accelerate this trend .
We should be able to get that done .
And tomorrow , my administration will release a new `` College Scorecard '' that to compare schools based on a simple criteria -- where you can get the most bang for your educational buck .
Factory towns decimated from years of plants packing up .
And we 'll work to strengthen families by , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
, the Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth of health care costs .
America is not a place where the chance of birth or circumstance should decide our destiny .
Democrats and Republicans have supported it before , so what are we waiting for ?
The families of Aurora deserve a vote .
That 's holding our entire economy back .
It is not a bigger government we need , but a smarter government that sets priorities and invests in broad-based growth .
Let 's put people back to work .
And to make sure taxpayers do n't shoulder the whole burden , I 'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade what our businesses need most : modern ports to move our goods , modern pipelines to withstand a storm , modern schools worthy of our children .
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from .
we ca n't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and the most powerful .
It 's a word that does n't just describe our nationality or legal status .
But we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans .
And those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
Now , if we want to make the best products , we also have to invest in the best ideas .
`` It is my task , '' he said , `` to report the State of the Union -- to improve it is the task of us all . ''
Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress .
that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing , and developing standards to protect our national security , , and our privacy .
We wo n't grow the middle class simply by shifting the cost of health care or college onto families that are already struggling , or by forcing communities to lay off more teachers and more cops and more firefighters .
this year , Apple will start making Macs in America again .
But now Congress must act as well , by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks and deter attacks .
I recognize that in our democracy , no one should just take my word for it that we 're doing things the right way .
Let me repeat -- nothing I 'm proposing tonight should increase our deficit by a single dime .
They deserve a simple vote .
And right now , leaders from the business , labor , law enforcement , faith communities -- they all agree that the time has come to pass comprehensive immigration reform .
But we ca n't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and the most powerful .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- supporting our military families ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
In other words , we know what needs to be done .
I ask this Congress to help create a network of 15 of these hubs and guarantee that the next revolution in manufacturing is made right here in America .
And that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing , and developing standards to protect our national security , our jobs , and our privacy .
A year and a half ago , I put forward an American Jobs Act that would create more than 1 million new jobs .
That 's .
, it 's true that no single event makes a trend .
Heat waves , , wildfires , floods -- all are now more frequent and more intense .
Let 's give our kids that chance .
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon .
Overwhelming majorities of Americans -- Americans -- have come together around common-sense reform , like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
, they 're ready for a job when they graduate high school .
Tonight , let 's declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth , no one should have to live in poverty , and raise the federal minimum wage to $ 9.00 an hour .
all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in dangerous places at great personal risk -- - our diplomats , our intelligence officers , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
, there 's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $ 3,000 a year by refinancing at today 's rates .
Or we can choose to believe in the overwhelming judgment of science -- and act before it 's too late .
I urge this Congress to get together , pursue a bipartisan , market-based solution to climate change , like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago .
Now , some in Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by .
Hadiya 's parents , , are in this chamber tonight , along with more than two dozen Americans whose lives have been torn apart by gun violence .
The American people have worked too hard , for too long , rebuilding from one crisis their elected officials cause another .
We can choose to believe that Superstorm Sandy , and the most severe drought in decades , and the worst wildfires some states have ever seen were all just a freak coincidence .
We were sent here to look out for our fellow Americans the same way they look out for one another , every single day , usually without fanfare , all across this country .
all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in dangerous places at great personal risk -- - our diplomats , , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
But we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone has the chance to get ahead .
preventing only the defense cuts by making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training , Medicare and Social Security benefits
One of those we lost was a young girl named Hadiya Pendleton .
Mr. Speaker , Mr. Vice President , members of Congress , fellow citizens : Fifty-one years ago , John F. Kennedy declared to this chamber that `` the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress . ''
And I want to thank my wife , , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to as well as they have served us .
Study after study shows that the sooner a child begins learning , the better he or she does down the road .
So tonight , I 'm announcing a nonpartisan commission to improve the voting experience in America .
Now is the time to do it .
And I know you want these job-creating projects in your district .
And tomorrow , my administration will release a new `` College Scorecard '' that parents and students can use to compare schools based on a simple criteria -- where you can get the most bang for your educational buck .
And we will stand steadfast with Israel in pursuit of security and a lasting peace .
We 're negotiating an agreement with the Afghan government that focuses on two missions -- so that the country does not again slip into chaos , and counterterrorism efforts that allow us to pursue the remnants of al Qaeda and their affiliates .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- ; .
But this time is different .
Now , some in Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training , Medicare and Social Security benefits .
Through tax credits , grants and better loans , we 've made college more affordable for millions of students and families over the last few years .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by and educate themselves ; by ; and by .
We 'll work with the states to do it .
Our economy is adding jobs -- but too many people still ca n't find full-time employment .
I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon , in Burma , when Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been imprisoned for years ; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets , , including a man who said , `` There is justice and law in the United States .
Tonight , I can announce that over the next year , another 34,000 American troops will come home from Afghanistan .
tonight , I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid .
Throughout , we have kept Congress fully informed of our efforts .
Most Americans -- Democrats , Republicans , and independents -- understand that we ca n't just cut our way to prosperity .
all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those -- - our diplomats , our intelligence officers , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
Hadiya 's parents , , are in this chamber tonight , along with more than two dozen Americans .
Gabby Giffords deserves a vote .
, I put forward an American Jobs Act that independent economists said would create more than 1 million new jobs .
What 's holding us back ?
We produce more oil at home than we have in 15 years .
let 's get this done .
we 'll reward schools that develop new partnerships with colleges and employers , and create classes that focus on science , technology , engineering and math -- the skills today 's employers are looking for to fill the jobs that are there right now and will be there in the future .
Thank you , Jill .
I ask women should earn a living equal to their efforts , and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year .
`` It is my task , '' to report the State of the Union -- to improve it is the task of us all . ''
The greatest nation on Earth can not keep conducting its business by .
for the sake of our children and our future , we must do more to combat climate change .
So tonight , I 'm announcing the launch of three more of these manufacturing hubs , where businesses will partner with the Department of Defense and Energy to turn regions left behind by globalization into global centers of high-tech jobs .
Our actions will not prevent every senseless act of violence in this country .
Solar energy gets cheaper by the year -- let 's drive down costs even further .
Our housing market is healing , our stock market is rebounding , and consumers , , and homeowners enjoy stronger protections than ever before .
And I want to thank my wife , Michelle , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to as well as they have served us .
America will be better for it .
In many places , people live on little more than a dollar a day .
We ca n't do it .
tonight , I propose we use some of our oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good .
, we stand united in .
As long as countries like China keep , so must we .
So tonight , I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act so that affordability and value are included in .
we were never sent here to be perfect .
It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities , you can get ahead , no matter where you come from , no matter what you look like , or who you love .
And we 'll reward schools that develop new partnerships with colleges and employers , and create classes that focus on science , technology , engineering and math -- the skills today 's employers are looking for to fill the jobs that are there right now and will be there in the future .
Today , the organization that attacked us on 9\/11 is a shadow of its former self .
We have doubled the distance our cars will go on a gallon of gas , and the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar -- with tens of thousands of good American jobs to show for it .
But if Congress wo n't act soon to protect future generations , I will .
Heat waves , droughts , wildfires , floods -- all are now more frequent and more intense .
-LRB- Laughter . -RRB-
even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low , too many families with solid credit are being rejected .
over the last four years , our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our planet have actually fallen .
as time ticked by , her concern was not with her tired body or aching feet , but whether folks like her would get to have their say .
But taxpayers ca n't keep on .
, together , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and we can say with renewed confidence that the State of our Union is stronger .
This spring , our forces will move into a support role , while Afghan security forces take the lead .
We need to fix it .
Now , to grow our middle class , our citizens have to have access to the education and training that today 's jobs require .
Heat waves , , , floods -- all are now more frequent and more intense .
When any American , , are denied that right because they ca n't afford to wait for five or six or seven hours just to cast their ballot , we are betraying our ideals .
The American people demand it , and so does our democracy .
Now , the good news is we can make meaningful progress on this issue while .
She was so good to her friends they were her best friend .
So tonight , I propose .
they do expect us to put the nation 's interests before party .
To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target , we should do , and save hundreds of billions of dollars by getting rid of tax loopholes and deductions for the well-off and the well-connected .
we ca n't stop there .
And we 'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
Over the last few years , both parties have worked together to reduce the deficit by more than $ 2.5 trillion -- mostly through spending cuts , but also by .
Heat waves , droughts , , floods -- all are now more frequent and more intense .
And four years ago , we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of what we spend on education each year .
for poor kids , this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them for the rest of their lives .
Let 's put people back to work rebuilding vacant homes in run-down neighborhoods .
I 'm asking two long-time experts in the field -- -- to lead it .
Tonight , we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians who sacrifice every day to protect us .
For they know that America moves forward only when we do so together , and that the responsibility of remains the task of us all .
I will direct my Cabinet to come up with executive actions we can take , now and in the future , to reduce pollution , prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change , and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy .
, we know hackers steal people 's identities and infiltrate private emails .
we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone who 's willing to work -- everybody has the chance to get ahead .
I thank the last Congress for .
And for poor kids who need help the most , this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them for the rest of their lives .
we want to encourage that .
Right now , countries like Germany focus on .
, we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians who sacrifice every day to protect us .
The regime in North Korea must know they will only achieve security and prosperity by meeting their international obligations .
After years of talking about it , we 're finally poised to control our own energy future .
Because of them , we can say with confidence that America will complete its mission in Afghanistan and achieve our objective of .
They do n't expect those of us in this chamber to agree on every issue .
And I ask this Congress to declare that women should earn a living equal to their efforts , and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year .
So tonight , I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid .
We know our economy is stronger when we reward an honest day 's work with honest wages .
, some in Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by .
We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets .
At the same time , we 'll engage Russia to seek further reductions in our nuclear arsenals , and continue .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon .
So let 's do and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by ; and by .
Too many families who never missed a payment and want to refinance are being told no. .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
we ca n't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while .
So , , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and the State of our Union is stronger .
And this year , my administration will begin to partner with 20 of the hardest-hit towns in America to get these communities back on their feet .
And we 'll work to strengthen families by , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
God bless you , and God bless these United States of America .
At the same time , we 'll engage Russia to seek further reductions in our nuclear arsenals , and continue leading the global effort to secure nuclear materials that could fall into the wrong hands -- because our ability to influence others depends on our willingness to lead and meet our obligations .
let 's set party interests aside and work to pass a budget that replaces reckless cuts with smart savings and wise investments in our future .
So , , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and we can say with renewed confidence that the State of our Union is stronger .
senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and the most powerful
Even with the tax relief we put in place , a family with two kids that earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line .
the sooner a child begins learning , the better he or she does down the road
We were sent here to make .
, even as we protect our people , we should remember that today 's world presents not just dangers , not threats , it presents opportunities .
I know you want these job-creating projects in your district .
And where necessary , through a range of capabilities , we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists .
Real reform means strong border security , and we can build on the progress my administration has already made -- putting more boots on the Southern border than at any time in our history and reducing illegal crossings to their lowest levels in 40 years .
Every dollar we invest in high-quality early childhood education can save more than seven dollars later on -- by .
But the fact is the 12 hottest years on record have all come in the last 15 .
It 's also the foundation of our power and influence throughout the world .
tomorrow , my administration will release a new `` College Scorecard '' that parents and students can use to compare schools based on a simple criteria -- where you can get the most bang for your educational buck .
But even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low , too many families with solid credit who want to buy a home are being rejected .
That 's why my administration has worked tirelessly to forge a durable legal and policy framework to guide our counterterrorism efforts .
Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets , because these police chiefs , they 're tired of seeing their guys and gals .
Inescapable pockets of poverty where young adults are still fighting for their first job .
Over the last few years , both parties have worked together to reduce the deficit by more than $ 2.5 trillion -- mostly through spending cuts , but also by raising tax rates on the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans .
That 's what we should be looking for .
We should follow their example .
As long as I 'm Commander-in-Chief , we will do whatever we must to protect those , and we will maintain the best military the world has ever known .
Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets , because these police chiefs , they 're tired of seeing their guys and gals being outgunned .
Tonight , I 'm announcing a new challenge to redesign America 's high schools so they better equip graduates for the demands of a high-tech economy .
In states that make it a priority to educate our youngest children , like Georgia or Oklahoma , studies show students grow up more likely to read and do math at grade level , graduate high school , hold a job , form more stable families of their own .
After shedding jobs for more than 10 years , our manufacturers have added about 500,000 jobs over the past three .
Now , even as we protect our people , we should remember that today 's world presents not just dangers , not threats , it presents opportunities .
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from .
The regime in North Korea must know they will only achieve security and prosperity by .
The American people deserve a tax code that helps small businesses spend less time filling out complicated forms , and more time expanding and hiring -- a tax code that ensures billionaires with high-powered accountants ca n't work the system and pay a lower rate than their hardworking secretaries ; a tax code that lowers incentives to move jobs overseas , and lowers tax rates for businesses and manufacturers that are creating jobs right here in the United States of America .
Of course , what I 've said tonight matters little if we do n't come together to protect our most precious resource : our children .
Let 's offer incentives to companies that hire Americans who 've got anymore .
When a gunman opened fire on a Sikh temple in Wisconsin and Brian was the first to arrive , he did not consider his own safety .
The greatest nation on Earth can not keep conducting its business by drifting from one manufactured crisis to the next .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- ; .
America will continue to lead the effort to prevent the spread of the world 's most dangerous weapons .
, we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians .
I 'm also issuing a new goal for America : Let 's cut in half the energy wasted by our homes and businesses over the next 20 years .
So let 's set party interests aside and work to pass a budget that replaces reckless cuts with smart savings and wise investments in our future .
In 2011 , Congress passed a law .
They do expect us to forge reasonable compromise where we can .
When Hurricane Sandy plunged her hospital into darkness , she was n't thinking about how her own home was faring .
Last year , we created our first manufacturing innovation institute in Youngstown , Ohio .
part of our rebuilding effort must also involve our housing sector .
I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon , in Burma , when Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been imprisoned for years ; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets , waving American flags , including a man who said , `` There is justice and law in the United States .
And all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in dangerous places at great personal risk -- - our diplomats , , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
That idea is even worse .
it definitely needs improvement .
tonight , I propose a `` Fix-It-First '' program to put people to work as soon as possible on our most urgent repairs , like the nearly 70,000 structurally deficient bridges across the country .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by ; and by .
Ask any CEO where they 'd rather locate and hire -- a country with deteriorating roads and bridges , or one with high-speed rail and Internet ; high-tech schools , self-healing power grids .
That 's why Democrats , , , and economists have already said that these cuts , known here in Washington as the sequester , are a really bad idea .
real reform means .
We were sent here to make what difference we can , to secure this nation , expand opportunity , uphold our ideals through the hard , often frustrating , but absolutely necessary work of self-government .
Because in the two months since Newtown , more than a thousand birthdays , graduations , anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun -- more than a thousand .
Right now , countries like Germany focus on graduating their high school students with the equivalent of a technical degree from one of our community colleges .
the sooner a child begins , the better he or she does down the road
After years of grueling recession , our businesses have created over six million new jobs .
We 'll keep the pressure on a Syrian regime that has murdered its own people , and support opposition leaders that respect the rights of every Syrian .
Yes , the biggest driver of our long-term debt is the rising cost of health care for an aging population .
Why is it that deficit reduction is a big emergency justifying making cuts in Social Security benefits but not closing some loopholes ?
A year and a half ago , I put forward an American Jobs Act that independent economists said would create more than 1 million new jobs .
as Americans , we all share the same proud title -- we are citizens .
America 's energy sector is just one part of an aging infrastructure badly in need of repair .
A once-shuttered warehouse is now a state-of-the art lab where new workers are mastering the 3D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we make almost everything .
They 're developing drugs to regenerate damaged organs ; devising new material to make batteries 10 times more powerful .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- ; .
let 's be clear , deficit reduction alone is not an economic plan .
If a nonpartisan coalition of CEOs and retired generals and admirals can get behind this idea , then so can we .
The good news is our housing market is finally healing from the collapse of 2007 .
, together , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and the State of our Union is stronger .
That 's why these cuts , known here in Washington as the sequester , are a really bad idea .
Every day , we should ask ourselves three questions as a nation : How do we attract more jobs to our shores ?
Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid , our financial institutions , our air traffic control systems .
Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from .
Of course , matters little if we do n't come together to protect our most precious resource : our children .
Tonight , we stand united in .
, I can announce that over the next year , another 34,000 American troops will come home from Afghanistan .
We 'll reduce taxpayer subsidies to prescription drug companies and ask more from the wealthiest seniors .
You see , America must remain a beacon to all .
Today , our scientists are mapping the human brain to unlock the answers to Alzheimer 's .
For they know that America moves forward only when we do so together , and that the responsibility of improving this union remains the task of us all .
They 've been trained for the jobs that are there .
And that 's the attitude of a lot of companies all around the world .
Let 's offer incentives to companies that hire Americans who 've got what it takes to fill that job opening , but have been out of work so long that no one will give them a chance anymore .
And that 's why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all .
Stronger communities .
, we 'll need to help countries like Yemen , and Libya , and Somalia provide for their own security , and help allies .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- supporting our military families ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
But we ca n't stop there .
We can fix this , and we will .
Tonight , we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians .
To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target , we should do what leaders in both parties have already suggested , and save hundreds of billions of dollars by .
tonight , I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available to every single child in America .
And the question is , how ?
In other words , we know .
, countries like Germany focus on .
He fought back until help arrived and ordered his fellow officers to protect the safety of the Americans worshiping inside , even as he lay bleeding from 12 bullet wounds .
Most Americans understand that we ca n't just cut our way to prosperity .
for poor kids who need help the most , this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them for the rest of their lives .
we 'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
But these proposals deserve a vote .
We should follow the example of a New York City nurse named Menchu Sanchez .
Take a vote , and send me that bill .
I know this is not the first time this country has debated how to reduce gun violence .
The families of Newtown deserve a vote .
Instead , we 'll need to help countries like Yemen , and Libya , and Somalia provide for their own security , and help allies .
four years ago , we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of .
Every dollar we invest in high-quality early childhood education can save more than seven dollars later on -- by boosting graduation rates , reducing teen pregnancy , even reducing violent crime .
So here 's an idea that Governor Romney and I actually agreed on last year -- let 's tie the minimum wage to the cost of living , so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on .
And for poor kids , this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them for the rest of their lives .
that 's the attitude of a lot of companies all around the world .
to make sure taxpayers do n't shoulder the whole burden , I 'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade what our businesses need most : modern ports to move our goods , modern pipelines to withstand a storm , modern schools worthy of our children .
And where necessary , through a range of capabilities , we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists who pose the gravest threat to Americans .
And those of us must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- ; .
But let 's be clear , deficit reduction alone is not an economic plan .
And it definitely needs improvement .
I realize that tax reform and entitlement reform will not be easy .
He fought back until help arrived and ordered his fellow officers to protect the safety of the Americans worshiping inside , even as he lay .
Mr. Speaker , , , fellow citizens : Fifty-one years ago , John F. Kennedy declared to this chamber that `` the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress . ''
Too many families are being told no. .
, in the meantime , the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater energy independence .
I ask this Congress to declare that women should earn a living equal to their efforts , and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year .
Send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months , and I will sign it right away .
And that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by .
And those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
And this year , Apple will start .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- supporting our military families ; .
these proposals deserve a vote .
It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities , you can get ahead , no matter where you come from , no matter , or .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- supporting our military families ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
I 've seen all those ribbon-cuttings .
The politics will be hard for both sides .
to meet this threat , we do n't need to send tens of thousands of our sons and daughters abroad or occupy other nations .
if we upgrade our infrastructure , they 'll bring even more jobs
Ford is bringing jobs back from Mexico .
four years ago , we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of what we spend on education each year .
How is that fair ?
that 's why my administration will keep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits .
And that 's the approach I offer tonight .
Four years ago , other countries dominated the clean energy market and the jobs that came with it .
In the Middle East , we will stand with citizens as they demand their universal rights , and support stable transitions to democracy .
This drawdown will continue and by the end of next year , our war in Afghanistan will be over .
We buy more American cars than we have in five years , and less foreign oil than we have in 20 .
those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
Just three weeks ago , she was here , in Washington , with her classmates , performing for her country at my inauguration .
, some in Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training , Medicare and Social Security benefits .
, even as we protect our people , we should remember that today 's world presents not just dangers , not just threats , it presents opportunities .
That 's why Democrats , Republicans , , and economists have already said that these cuts , known here in Washington as the sequester , are a really bad idea .
I now urge the House to do the same .
it before , so what are we waiting for ?
, overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from buying their first home .
It describes .
I want to thank my wife , Michelle , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to as well as they have served us .
After a decade of grinding war , our brave men and women in uniform are coming home .
Right now , there 's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $ 3,000 a year by refinancing at today 's rates .
Now is the time to get it done .
It describes what we believe .
And how do we make sure that hard work leads to a decent living ?
, if you want to vote no , that 's your choice .
So tonight , I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available to every single child in America .
we 'll work to strengthen families by , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
Let 's agree right here , right now to keep the people 's government open , and pay our bills on time , and always uphold the full faith and credit of the United States of America .
Tonight , thanks to the grit and determination of the American people , there is much progress to report .
That 's just the way we 're made .
tonight , I 'm announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union -- because trade that is fair and free across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs .
Good job , Joe .
The greatest nation on Earth can not keep .
to make sure taxpayers do n't shoulder the whole burden , I 'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade , modern schools worthy of our children .
tonight , I 'm announcing the launch of three more of these manufacturing hubs , where businesses will partner with the Department of Defense and Energy to turn regions left behind by globalization into global centers of high-tech jobs .
That 's why Democrats , Republicans , business leaders , and economists have already said that these cuts , known here in Washington as the sequester , are a really bad idea .
this time is different .
America will complete its mission in Afghanistan and achieve our objective of
, we 'll need to help countries like Yemen , and Libya , and Somalia provide for their own security , and help allies who take the fight to terrorists , as we have in Mali .
Now , as we do , we must enlist our values in the fight .
Right now , overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from buying their first home .
We can get this done .
Now , if you want to vote no , that 's your choice .
, the good news is we can make meaningful progress on this issue while .
I want to thank my wife , , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to as well as they have served us .
That 's what we can do together .
The American people have worked too hard , for too long , rebuilding from one crisis to see their elected officials cause another .
, countries like Germany focus on graduating their high school students with the equivalent of a technical degree from one of our community colleges .
It could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank ; rent or eviction ; scraping by or finally getting ahead .
And those of us must embrace the need for modest reforms -- , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
The CEO of Siemens America -- a company that brought hundreds of new jobs to North Carolina -- said that if we upgrade our infrastructure , they 'll bring even more jobs .
the question is , how ?
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by .
Our government should n't make promises we can not keep -- but we must keep the promises we 've already made .
These initiatives in manufacturing , energy , infrastructure , housing -- all these things will help entrepreneurs and small business owners expand and create new jobs .
today , a full-time worker making the minimum wage earns $ 14,500 a year .
Our work must begin by making some basic decisions about our budget -- decisions that will have a huge impact on the strength of our recovery .
These sudden , harsh , arbitrary cuts would jeopardize our military readiness .
Already , the Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth of health care costs .
Study after study shows that the sooner a child begins , the better he or she does down the road .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by .
We know our economy is stronger when our wives , our mothers , our daughters can live their lives free from discrimination in the workplace , and free from the fear of domestic violence .
It has been two months since Newtown .
But we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone who 's willing to work -- everybody who 's willing to work hard has the chance to get ahead .
Those states with the best ideas to create jobs and lower energy bills by constructing more efficient buildings will receive federal support to help make that happen .
I urge this Congress to pass the rest .
Right now , overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from .
Now , some in Congress have proposed .
we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by .
They know that broad-based economic growth requires a balanced approach to deficit reduction , with spending cuts and revenue , and with everybody doing their fair share .
In fact , much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we , , own together .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do .
Let 's get it done .
Because in the two months since Newtown , more than a thousand birthdays , , anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun -- more than a thousand .
tonight , I 'll lay out additional proposals that are fully paid for and fully consistent with the budget framework both parties agreed to just 18 months ago .
taxpayers ca n't keep on .
, we have brought home 33,000 of our brave servicemen and women .
, to grow our middle class , our citizens have to have access to the education and training that today 's jobs require .
We wo n't grow the middle class simply by shifting the cost of health care or college onto families that are already struggling , or by .
those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
But taxpayers ca n't keep on subsidizing higher and higher and higher costs for higher education .
And they erupted in cheers when she finally put on a sticker that read , `` I voted . ''
, I put forward an American Jobs Act that would create more than 1 million new jobs .
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon .
let 's do it without the brinksmanship that stresses consumers and scares off investors .
ourselves three questions as a nation
It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities , you can get ahead , no matter where you come from , no matter , or who you love .
Hadiya 's parents , Nate and Cleo , are in this chamber tonight , along with more than two dozen Americans whose lives have been torn apart by gun violence .
, , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and we can say with renewed confidence that the State of our Union is stronger .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
How do we equip our people with the skills they need to get those jobs ?
Mr. Speaker , , members of Congress , fellow citizens : Fifty-one years ago , John F. Kennedy declared to this chamber that `` the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress . ''
But to meet this threat , we do n't need to send tens of thousands of our sons and daughters abroad or occupy other nations .
And four years ago , we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of .
And that 's why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all who are willing to climb them .
Why is it that deficit reduction is a big emergency justifying ?
And that has to start at the earliest possible age .
Beyond 2014 , America 's commitment to a unified and sovereign Afghanistan will endure , but the nature of our commitment will change .
To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target , we should do what leaders in both parties have already suggested , and save hundreds of billions of dollars by getting rid of tax loopholes and deductions for the well-off and the well-connected .
Instead , we 'll need to help countries like Yemen , and Libya , and Somalia provide for their own security , and help allies who take the fight to terrorists , as we have in Mali .
tonight , I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act so that affordability and value are included in .
In defense of freedom , we 'll remain the anchor of strong alliances from the Americas to Africa ; from Europe to Asia .
None of us will get 100 percent of .
now Congress must act as well , by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks and deter attacks .
we will stand steadfast with Israel in pursuit of security and a lasting peace .
Last year , wind energy added nearly half of all new power capacity in America .
So in the months ahead , I will continue to engage Congress to ensure not only that our targeting , detention and prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks and balances , but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American people and to the world .
That 's wrong .
Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets , because these police chiefs , they 're tired of .
let 's do what works and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do .
Now , we know hackers steal people 's identities and infiltrate private emails .
Our first priority is making America a magnet for new jobs and manufacturing .
they erupted in cheers when she finally put on a sticker that read , `` I voted . ''
As long as I 'm Commander-in-Chief , we will do whatever we must to protect those who serve their country abroad , and we will maintain the best military the world has ever known .
As a result , we are more than halfway towards the goal of $ 4 trillion in deficit reduction that economists say we need to stabilize our finances .
And as we speak , bipartisan groups in both chambers are working diligently to draft a bill , and I applaud their efforts .
It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities , you can get ahead , no matter where you come from , no matter what you look like , or .
, I will continue to engage Congress to ensure not only that our targeting , detention and prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks and balances , but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American people and to the world .
Of course , our challenges do n't end with al Qaeda .
We produce more natural gas than ever before -- and nearly everyone 's energy bill is lower because of it .
She loved Fig Newtons and lip gloss .
We will draw upon the courage and skills of our sisters and daughters and moms , because women have proven under fire that they are ready for combat .
And let 's do it without the brinksmanship that stresses consumers and scares off investors .
we need to finish the job .
But today , skyrocketing costs price too many young people out of a higher education , or saddle them with unsustainable debt .
our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid , , our air traffic control systems .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- supporting our military families ; .
let 's do and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind .
Now , the good news is we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving strong economic growth .
As long as countries like China keep going all in on clean energy , so must we .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from .
That 's why , since the last time this Congress raised the minimum wage , 19 states have chosen to bump theirs even higher .
It 's a simple fact the more education you 've got , the more likely you are to have a good job and work your way into the middle class .
, even with better high schools , most young people will need some higher education .
we 've begun to change that .
That includes one of the most fundamental right of a democracy : the right to vote .
Real reform means establishing a responsible pathway to earned citizenship -- a path that includes .
And tonight , I 'm announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union -- because trade that is fair and free across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs .
These are the messages I 'll deliver when I travel to the Middle East next month .
And part of our rebuilding effort must also involve our housing sector .
Our housing market is healing , our stock market is rebounding , and consumers , patients , and homeowners enjoy stronger protections than ever before .
I am open to additional reforms from both parties , so long as they do n't violate the guarantee of a secure retirement .
And real reform means .
Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals .
How does that promote growth ?
that 's why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all who are willing to climb them .
we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans whose hard work and dedication have not yet been rewarded .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon .
Now is the time to reach a level of research and development not seen since the height of the Space Race .
So let 's do what works and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind .
That 's what tax reform can deliver .
We need to make those investments .
today , skyrocketing costs price too many young people out of a higher education , or saddle them with unsustainable debt .
But none of it will matter unless we also equip our citizens with the skills and training to fill those jobs .
the reforms I 'm proposing go even further .
Hadiya 's parents , Nate and Cleo , are in this chamber tonight , along with more than two dozen Americans .
And I want to thank my wife , , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our military families as well as they have served us .
It is this kind of prosperity -- broad , shared , built on a thriving middle class -- that has always been the source of our progress at home .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by and educate themselves ; by ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
So tonight , I propose we use some of our oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good .
Now , it 's true that no single event makes a trend .
Most middle-class parents ca n't afford a few hundred bucks a week for a private preschool .

Corporate profits have skyrocketed to all-time highs -- but for more than a decade , wages and incomes have barely budged .
And that 's why my administration will keep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits .
Her mind was on the 20 precious newborns in her care and the rescue plan she devised that kept them all safe .
But even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low , too many families with solid credit are being rejected .
But we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans whose hard work and dedication have not yet been rewarded .
we 'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
In fact , much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we , the public , own together .
The American people do n't expect government to solve every problem .
I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon , in Burma , when Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been imprisoned for years ; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets , waving American flags , including a man , `` There is justice and law in the United States .
that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by .
And I thank the last Congress for .
Overwhelming majorities of Americans have come together around common-sense reform , like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun .
We may do different jobs and wear different uniforms , and hold different views than the person beside us .
that 's why my administration will keep .
And I am open to additional reforms from both parties , so long as they do n't violate the guarantee of a secure retirement .
Tonight , let 's declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth , no one who works full-time should have to live in poverty , and raise the federal minimum wage to $ 9.00 an hour .
To boost American exports , support American jobs and level the playing field in the growing markets of Asia , we intend to complete negotiations on a Trans-Pacific Partnership .
America must also face the rapidly growing threat from cyber-attacks .
Provocations of the sort we saw last night will only further isolate them , as we stand by our allies , strengthen our own missile defense and lead the world in .
, other countries dominated the clean energy market and the jobs that came with it .
And real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy .
But we were never sent here to be perfect .
So let 's generate even more .
A stronger America .
But now Congress must act as well , by .
So , together , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and we can say with renewed confidence that the State of our Union is stronger .
Today , the Senate passed the Violence Against Women Act that Joe Biden originally wrote almost 20 years ago .
There 's no reason this ca n't happen in other towns .
, I 'm announcing a new challenge to redesign America 's high schools so they better equip graduates for the demands of a high-tech economy .
On Medicare , I 'm prepared to enact reforms that will achieve the same amount of health care savings by the beginning of the next decade as the reforms proposed by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission .
we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone has the chance to get ahead .
Mr. Speaker , Mr. Vice President , , fellow citizens : Fifty-one years ago , John F. Kennedy declared to this chamber that `` the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress . ''
We 'll work with local leaders to target resources at public safety , and education , and housing .
But the alternative will cost us jobs , hurt our economy , visit hardship on millions of hardworking Americans .
Home purchases are up nearly 50 percent , and construction is expanding again .
We can get that done .
Why would that be a partisan issue , helping folks refinance ?
She was so good to her friends they all thought they were her best friend .
Now , in the meantime , the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater energy independence .
, the good news is we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving strong economic growth .
And that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing , and developing standards to protect our national security , , and our privacy .
, we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of .
when asked how he did that , Brian said , `` That 's just the way we 're made . ''
We will ensure equal treatment for all servicemembers , and equal benefits for their families -- gay and straight .
, if we want to make the best products , we also have to invest in the best ideas .
Let 's streamline the process , and help our economy grow .
Let 's also make sure that a high school diploma puts our kids on a path to a good job .
Let 's prove that there 's no better place to do business than here in the United States of America , and let 's start right away .
all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those -- - our diplomats , , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
We need to encourage that .
Why would we be against that ?
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in , and we will do .
But I also want to work with this Congress to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even cleaner and protects our air and our water .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- supporting our military families ; .
Our work must begin by .
Now , most of us agree that a plan to reduce the deficit must be part of our agenda .
I also want to work with this Congress to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even cleaner and protects our air and our water .
The families of Oak Creek and Tucson and Blacksburg , and the countless other communities ripped open by gun violence -- - they deserve a simple vote .
For businesses across the country , it would mean customers with more money in their pockets .
Tonight , let 's also recognize that there are communities in this country where no matter how hard you work , it is virtually impossible to get ahead .
You see , America must remain a beacon to all who seek freedom during this period of historic change .
preventing only the defense cuts by
I want our country to be like that . ''
This single step would raise the incomes of millions of working families .
But today , fewer than 3 in 10 four year-olds are enrolled in a high-quality preschool program .
But as Americans , we all share the same proud title -- we are citizens .
I thank the last Congress for passing some of that agenda .
But today , a full-time worker making the minimum wage earns $ 14,500 a year .
Now , even as we protect our people , we should remember that today 's world presents not just dangers , not just threats , it presents opportunities .
as we speak , bipartisan groups in both chambers are working diligently to draft a bill , and I applaud their efforts .
We can not look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy .
We must all do our part to make sure our God-given rights are protected here at home .
that has to start at the earliest possible age .
Already , we have brought home 33,000 of our brave servicemen and women .
We know this works .
But tonight , I 'll lay out additional proposals that are fully paid for and fully consistent with the budget framework both parties agreed to just 18 months ago .
Now at schools like P-Tech in Brooklyn , a collaboration between New York Public Schools and City University of New York and IBM , students will graduate with a high school diploma and an associate 's degree in computers or engineering .
, we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards , all for about 1 percent of what we spend on education each year .
That 's something we should be able to do .
Caterpillar is bringing jobs back from Japan .
Real reform means strong border security , and we can build on the progress my administration has already made -- in 40 years .
Real reform means establishing a responsible pathway to earned citizenship -- a path that includes passing a background check , paying taxes and a meaningful penalty , learning English , and going to the back of the line behind the folks trying to come here legally .
Those states with the best ideas to create jobs and lower energy bills by will receive federal support to help make that happen .
We also know that progress in the most impoverished parts of our world enriches us all -- not only because it creates new markets , more stable order in certain regions of the world , but also because it 's the right thing to do .
, , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and the State of our Union is stronger .
our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid , our financial institutions , our air traffic control systems .
They 're developing drugs to regenerate damaged organs ; .
when asked how he did that `` That 's just the way we 're made . ''
In 2011 , Congress passed a law saying that if both parties could n't agree on a plan to reach our deficit goal , about a trillion dollars ' worth of budget cuts would automatically go into effect this year .
the alternative will cost us jobs , hurt our economy , visit hardship on millions of hardworking Americans .
, most of us agree that a plan to reduce the deficit must be part of our agenda .
But we ca n't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy ; by empowering women ; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve , and helping communities to feed , and power , and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon , in Burma , when Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been imprisoned for years ; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets , , including a man , `` There is justice and law in the United States .
those of us must embrace the need for modest reforms -- , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
, as we do , we must enlist our values in the fight .
that 's why , earlier today , I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing , and developing standards to protect our national security , our jobs , and our privacy .
if Congress wo n't act soon to protect future generations , I will .
that 's why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all .
none of it will matter unless we also equip our citizens with the skills and training to fill those jobs .
, though , is not just the job of our military alone .
where necessary , through a range of capabilities , we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists .
those of us must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise , our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children , and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations .
And to make sure taxpayers do n't shoulder the whole burden , I 'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade , modern schools worthy of our children .
Most Americans -- Democrats , , and independents -- understand that we ca n't just cut our way to prosperity .
None of us will get 100 percent of what we want .
And I ask this Congress to help create a network of 15 of these hubs and guarantee that the next revolution in manufacturing is made right here in America .
senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while
we 'll work to strengthen families by , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
So those German kids , they 're ready for a job when they graduate high school .
this year , Apple will start .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
let 's generate even more .
taxpayers ca n't keep on subsidizing higher and higher and higher costs for higher education .
that 's the approach I offer tonight .
We 're negotiating an agreement with the Afghan government that focuses on two missions -- training and equipping Afghan forces so that the country does not again slip into chaos , and counterterrorism efforts that allow us to pursue the remnants of al Qaeda and their affiliates .
And I ask women should earn a living equal to their efforts , and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year .
Provocations of the sort we saw last night will only further isolate them , as we stand by our allies , strengthen our own missile defense and lead the world in taking firm action in response to these threats .
That 's why Democrats , , business leaders , and economists have already said that these cuts , known here in Washington as the sequester , are a really bad idea .
we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone who 's willing to work -- everybody who 's willing to work hard has the chance to get ahead .
even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low , too many families with solid credit who want to buy a home are being rejected .
Right now , there 's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $ 3,000 a year by .
And that 's why my administration will keep .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
And as time ticked by , her concern was not with her tired body or aching feet , but whether folks like her would get to have their say .
Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid , , our air traffic control systems .
We will keep faith with our veterans , investing in world-class care , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -- ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
And all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those -- - our diplomats , our intelligence officers , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
today , fewer than 3 in 10 four year-olds are enrolled in a high-quality preschool program .
And I thank the last Congress for passing some of that agenda .
She was 15 years old .
So tonight , I propose a `` Fix-It-First '' program to put people to work as soon as possible on our most urgent repairs , like the nearly 70,000 structurally deficient bridges across the country .
So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by and educate themselves ; by saving the world 's children from preventable deaths ; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation , which is within our reach .
a whole lot of folks out there would probably need less help from government .
And the reforms I 'm proposing go even further .
It describes the way we 're made .
Now is our best chance for bipartisan , comprehensive tax reform that encourages job creation and helps bring down the deficit .
this year , my administration will begin to partner with 20 of the hardest-hit towns in America to get these communities back on their feet .
where necessary , through a range of capabilities , we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists who pose the gravest threat to Americans .
We 'll bring down costs by changing the way our government pays for Medicare , because our medical bills should n't be based on the number of tests ordered or days spent in the hospital ; they should be based on the quality of care that our seniors receive .
now Congress must act as well , by .
To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target , we should do , and save hundreds of billions of dollars by .
We 'll give new tax credits to businesses that hire and invest .
And we want to encourage that .
It 's true , different al Qaeda affiliates and extremist groups have emerged -- from the Arabian Peninsula to Africa .
Why would that be a partisan issue , ?
But for the sake of our children and our future , we must do more to combat climate change .
The CEO of Siemens America said that if we upgrade our infrastructure , they 'll bring even more jobs .
We should follow the example of a North Miami woman named Desiline Victor .
hour after hour , a throng of people stayed in line to support her -- because Desiline is 102 years old .
Inescapable pockets of poverty , urban and rural , where young adults are still fighting for their first job .
we can choose to believe in the overwhelming judgment of science -- and act before it 's too late .
After all , why would we choose to make deeper cuts to education and Medicare just to protect special interest tax breaks ?
tonight , I 'm announcing a nonpartisan commission to improve the voting experience in America .
Home prices are rising at the fastest pace in six years .
We want to help that .
real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy .
The threat these groups pose is evolving .
And when asked how he did that , Brian said , `` That 's just the way we 're made . ''
Our economy is stronger when we harness the talents and ingenuity of striving , hopeful immigrants .
They 'd devastate priorities like education , and energy , and medical research .
We know the process will be messy , and we can not presume to dictate the course of change in countries like Egypt , but we can -- and will -- insist on respect for the fundamental rights of all people .
When Desiline arrived at her polling place , she was told the wait to vote might be six hours .
This is something we should be able to get done on a bipartisan basis .
And we 'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man is n't the ability to conceive a child ; it 's having the courage to raise one .
And over the last four years , our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our planet have actually fallen .
The American people have worked too hard , for too long , .
, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do .
She was a majorette .
And this year , Apple will start making Macs in America again .
Now we need to finish the job .
Our economy is adding jobs -- too many people still ca n't find full-time employment .
So let 's get this done .
They deserve a vote .
Let 's offer incentives to companies that hire Americans anymore .
That 's got to be part of an all-of-the-above plan .
And a week later , she was shot and killed in a Chicago park after school , just a mile away from my house .
And a whole lot of folks out there would probably need less help from government .
Defending our freedom , though , is not just the job of our military alone .
Let 's take their advice and free our families and businesses from the painful spikes in gas prices we 've put up with for far too long .
After years of , we 're finally poised to control our own energy future .
And I want to thank my wife , Michelle , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our military families as well as they have served us .
A growing economy that creates good , middle-class jobs -- that must be the North Star that guides our efforts .
Colleges must do their part to keep costs down , and it 's our job to make sure that they do .
I 'm asking two long-time experts in the field -- who , by the way , recently served as the top attorneys for my campaign and for Governor Romney 's campaign -- to lead it .
America will complete its mission in Afghanistan and achieve our objective of defeating the core of al Qaeda
Congress must act as well , by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks and deter attacks .
They would certainly slow our recovery , and cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs .
Every dollar we invested to map the human genome returned $ 140 to our economy -- every dollar .
And hour after hour , a throng of people stayed in line to support her -- because Desiline is 102 years old .
Overwhelming majorities of Americans -- Americans who believe in the Second Amendment -- have come together around common-sense reform , like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun .
In fact , no laws , no initiatives , no administrative acts will perfectly solve all the challenges I 've outlined tonight .
a week later , she was shot and killed in a Chicago park after school , just a mile away from my house .
Likewise , the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from .
tonight , I propose .
I want to thank my wife , Michelle , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our military families as well as they have served us .
, she was here , in Washington , with her classmates , performing for her country at my inauguration .
Congress must act as well , by .
, there 's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $ 3,000 a year by .
We wo n't grow the middle class simply by .
Now is not the time to gut these job-creating investments in science and innovation .
We need to give every American student opportunities like this .
tomorrow , my administration will release a new `` College Scorecard '' that to compare schools based on a simple criteria -- where you can get the most bang for your educational buck .
We 'll bring down costs by ; they should be based on the quality of care that our seniors receive .
Because of them , we can say with confidence that America will complete its mission in Afghanistan and achieve our objective of defeating the core of al Qaeda .
Thank you .
And we 've begun to change that .
It captures the enduring idea that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another and to future generations , that our rights are wrapped up in the rights of others ; and that well into our third century as a nation , it remains the task of us all , as citizens of these United States , to be the authors of the next great chapter of our American story .
But we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone who 's willing to work -- everybody has the chance to get ahead .
So , together , we have cleared away the rubble of crisis , and the State of our Union is stronger .
We were sent here to look out for our fellow Americans the same way they look out for one another , , usually without fanfare , all across this country .
We will keep faith with our veterans , , including mental health care , for our wounded warriors -- -LRB- applause -RRB- -- supporting our military families ; giving our veterans the benefits and education and job opportunities that they have earned .
, some in Congress have proposed .
I want to thank my wife , , and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our military families as well as they have served us .
the fact is the 12 hottest years on record have all come in the last 15 .
, overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from .
We 'll invest in new capabilities , even as we reduce waste and wartime spending .
But they do expect us to put the nation 's interests before party .
And all this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those -- - our diplomats , , and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces .
Now , even with better high schools , most young people will need some higher education .
And America will be better for it .
Thank you , honey .
It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many , and not just the few ; that it encourages free enterprise , rewards individual initiative , and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation .
And I now urge the House to do the same .
Today , no area holds more promise than our investments in American energy .
When any American , no matter where they live or what their party , are denied that right because they ca n't afford to wait for five or six or seven hours just to cast their ballot , we are betraying our ideals .
Stronger families .
We can choose Superstorm Sandy , and the most severe drought in decades , and the worst wildfires some states have ever seen were all just a freak coincidence .
