We need to finish the job. This year, apple will start making macs in america again. We'll work with the states to do it. The american people demand it, and so does our democracy. So tonight, i ask congress to change the higher education act so that affordability and value are included in. As long as countries like china keep, so must we. We'll give new tax credits to businesses that hire and invest. Stronger families. We stand united in. Now is the time to get it done. What's holding us back?. We want to help that. We will keep faith with our veterans, investing in world-class care, including mental health care, for our wounded warriors --. Preventing only the defense cuts by making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training, medicare and social security benefits. So let's generate even more. Let's also make sure that a high school diploma puts our kids on a path to a good job. The reforms i'm proposing go even further. So the united states will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades by connecting more people to the global economy; by empowering women; by to serve, and helping communities to feed, and power, and educate themselves; by; and by. That includes one of the most fundamental right of a democracy: the right to vote. Of course, matters little if we don't come together to protect our most precious resource: our children. There's a bill in this congress that would give every responsible homeowner in america the chance to save $3,000 a year by refinancing at today's rates. After years of, we're finally poised to control our own energy future. I thank the last congress for. To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target, we should do what leaders in both parties have already suggested, and save hundreds of billions of dollars by. It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few; that it encourages free enterprise, rewards individual initiative, and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation. I ask women should earn a living equal to their efforts, and finally pass the paycheck fairness act this year. In other words, we know. We can't do it. Those states with the best ideas to create jobs and lower energy bills by will receive federal support to help make that happen. We produce more oil at home than we have in 15 years. All this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those -- our diplomats, and the men and women of the united states armed forces. And i want to thank my wife, and dr. jill biden for their continued dedication to as well as they have served us. If a nonpartisan coalition of ceos and retired generals and admirals can get behind this idea, then so can we. We've begun to change that. 
